                                   - 1 -

       Libraries and Tools for running Blit programs under X11

         LibXg     The  original  library of routines for emulating
                   Blit/Jerq graphics in X11 was 'libj',  found  in
                   the  'jtools'  distribution  that Bell Labs made
                   around 1987. It emulated Blit graphics in X11 as
                   well   as   Suntools,  but  it  was  limited  to
                   monochrome displays.  LibXg dates from the early
                   1990s  and has support for colour; It appears to
                   be a kind of  transition  from  the  early  Blit
                   graphics   model   to   what  eventually  became
                   'libdraw' in Plan9 (and thus Plan9 Port).

         Libblit   The library which emulates a Blit terminal.  Not
                   all  graphics  routines  from  libXg  have  been
                   included,  notably  missing  are  routines   for
                   drawing  circles,  ellipses  etc.  They  are not
                   needed for the purpose of building 'pads', 'pi',
                   or  'jim'.  They  can  be  compiled  from  libXg
                   without any difficulty.

         Libjerq   Libblit somewhat  modified  to  handle  Freetype
                   fonts. The results were disappointing.

         Pads      The  graphical  engine,  as  it  were, for 'pi',
                   although it can be used more generally.  I  have
                   implemented a front-end for 'mh' with it.

         Jim       Rob  Pike's  first  graphical  editor for Eighth
                   Edition Unix, dating from 1985  or  thereabouts.
                   It  also  needs  to  be built against 'libblit',
                   being structured as a typical Blit program  with
                   a  'host'  and  'terminal' part. The port is not
                   finished.

         Demo      Various sample programs  demonstrating  features
                   of libblit.

         Doc       An  ms  document written by Andrew Hume, approx-
                   imately in 1985,  describing  various  (new,  at
                   that time) graphical routines written by various
                   people.  I  have  included   this   because   it
                   documents  the  features of 'nmenuhit' (known as
                   'mhit' in the document).

